i should add something to semi-rama
story that was kind of you know the
children's story version as you might
imagine in the original she was
sometimes she was a servant girl but
usually she was the mistress or
concubine of the king um
but the really interesting thing about
summer ramas is that she was so famous
she was this everybody heard of her
there's plays and
books and novels and voltaire wrote a
play called semi-ramas nobody ever puts
it on or has heard of it she's just been
kind of wiped out of history this is
confusing
i mean there was a person like that
we're not sure what she was really like
um
the legend has has
faded out but in the ancient world it
it seems to have formed
during the persian empire as this
imagination of an empire that would have
been even greater than the persian
empire and was spread at the time and
just got bigger and bigger in the
telling so according and it was a
fantasy of absolute female power which
represented what men at the time most
feared according to the story semiramis
you know never took on a permanent
consort because she was afraid of giving
any man too much power so she would just
pick out handsome soldiers and um
have them as lovers for a week and then
have them killed afterwards and so
everywhere there was a mound where they
didn't know what it was and it's oh
that's tomb of one of the lovers of
semiramis
and
the her own tomb this is one of my
favorite stories uh her own tomb
apparently according to a plutarch's
moralia um had a sign on the outside uh
written
in several languages saying if any king
inherits this place and is in a
desperate strait
um
[Music]
open my tomb and you will find salvation
so everybody assumed there was lots of
money uh
buried there so as soon as darius uh the
persian member took over the city were
the two i think it was in babylon um
immediately said oh great well let's get
the cash open the tomb came in and
inside
not only was her body not actually
buried there there was just a little
note inside saying well you're a greedy
bastard aren't you